## Corpus study of critical literature surrounding Igor Stravinsky’s works (1920–50)
What do reviewers focus on when writing about Igor Stravinsky’s works?

During 1920–50, Igor Stravinsky (1882–1971) was a neoclassical composer whose works were known for its unconventional melodic, harmonic, and rhythmic qualities. Often called “wrong-note music,” his works were widely commented on across all levels of expertise.

I used a corpus of reviews (.txt files) taken from periodicals, musical reviews, and journals, which contains 505 documents. Each document pertains to a specific musical work. Subcorpuses can be created based on any metadata value. Associated metadata includes information on author, location, work title, and date (of writing) at a minimum.(Dataset included here is an abridged version–cannot release all documents due to copyright reasons.)

I focused on six works whose subcorpuses contain at least twenty documents (“Apollo”, “Concerto for Piano and Wind Instruments”, “Danses Concertantes”, “Firebird”, “Pulcinella”, and “Rake’s Progress”). I used topic modeling with NMF to obtain fiftteen topics per corpus, consisting of ten words each, using silhouette scores to determine the appropriate number of topics. Topics were further organized into five categories that specify type of review (see center bottom). The top five words in each topic were used to determine the topic’s primary category, and the remaining five were used to determine the secondary category. I studied the distribution of secondary categories by primary category, and the distribution of primary categories by document.
